<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:demo="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/composite/crudfacesdemo">
    <h:body>
        <ui:composition template="/feature.xhtml">
            <ui:define name="title">message-bundles</ui:define>
            <ui:define name="status-label"><demo:status value="W"/></ui:define>
            <ui:define name="breadcrumb">
                <li>global overrides</li>
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="p-intro">
                CrudFaces overrides several bean validation default messages with more reasonable and especially more end-user-friendly content.
            </ui:define>
            <ui:define name="text">
                <p>Some of the ValidationMessages’s default messages are either very technical and end-user-unfriendly by default, 
                    they lack a common sentence structure (e.g. some ending with a dot, others don’t), or have other design flaws.
                    </p>
                <p>Most prominently, the <code>javax.faces.validator.BeanValidator.MESSAGE</code> String is overridden 
                        by CrudFaces such as to unify Apache MyFaces and Mojarra default implementation i.e. to always 
                        include the component’s label in a validation error message.
                    </p>
                
                    <h2>Known restrictions</h2>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Providing an explicit <code>&lt;message-bundle&gt;</code> in web.xml overrides all default messages.
                        As a partial workaround, Bean Validation message interpolation has been tweaked that it looks up validation message keys
                    in <code>&lt;resource-bundle&gt;</code> as well. Hence, use your <code>&lt;resource-bundle&gt;</code> to define 
                    additional Bean Validation constraint annotation <code>message</code>s.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Still only a very limited amount of out-of-the-box message key / value pairs provided.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <ul>
                        <li>No I18N of those message keys out-of-the-box yet.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>These restrictions are most likely to be addressed and resolved in future CrudFaces versions.</p>
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="demo-panel"/>
            <ui:define name="code-panel"/>
            <ui:define name="documentation">
                <strong>Source code</strong>
                <ul>
                    <li><code><a href="https://github.com/codebulb/crudfaces/blob/master/src/main/resources/META-INF/faces-config.xml">faces-config.xml</a></code></li>
                    <li><code><a href="https://github.com/codebulb/crudfaces/blob/master/src/main/resources/ch/codebulb/crudfaces/ValidationMessages.properties">ValidationMessages.properties</a></code></li>
                    <li><code><a href="https://github.com/codebulb/crudfaces/blob/master/src/main/resources/ch/codebulb/crudfaces/ValidationMessages_en.properties">ValidationMessages_en.properties</a></code></li>
                </ul>
            </ui:define>
        </ui:composition>
    </h:body>
</html>
