<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui">
    <h:body>
        <ui:composition template="/feature.xhtml">
            <ui:define name="title">Stateless view</ui:define>
            <ui:define name="breadcrumb">
                <li><h:link outcome="/crud/index.xhtml" value="CRUD"/></li>
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="p-intro">
                A stateless combined master / detail view with support for AJAX actions.
            </ui:define>
            <ui:define name="text">
                <p>A <code>CrudController</code> implementation can be used to implement a stateless XHTML Facelets view.</p>
                <p>Here, the detail view of the currently “selected” entity is part of the master view
                    (e.g. in a dialog box). Any CRUD action on an entity 
                    immediately updates the persistence storage.</p>
                
                <h2>Usage</h2>
                <p>Use these <code>CrudController</code> methods to trigger actions:</p>
                <ul>
                  <li><code>saveSelectedEntity()</code>: Saves the selected entity</li>
                  <li><code>saveNewEntity()</code>: Inserts the <code>newEntity</code></li>
                  <li><code>saveSelectedOrNewEntity()</code>: Saves the selected entity; or inserts the <code>newEntity</code> if none is selected</li>
                  <li><code>deleteEntity(id)</code>: Deletes the entity with id</li>
                  <li><code>deleteSelectedEntity()</code> / <code>deleteSelectedEntities()</code>: Deletes the selected entity/ies</li>
                </ul>
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="demo">
                <p:button outcome="customer/list.xhtml" value="Open demo page" styleClass="btn-primary"/>
                <p>The demo page contains info-boxes which explain the most important parts of building the XHTML Facelets view.
                </p>
                <p>Some of the basics about using <code>CrudController</code> as a backing bean are explained on the
                    <h:link outcome="/crud/restful/index.xhtml">RESTful demo page</h:link>.
                </p>
                <p>Of course, you can also view the entire demo page source code.
                </p>
                <p><b>Note: </b>This showcases’ live demo uses a <code>@SessionScoped</code> <code>CrudServiceMocked</code> implementation
                    instead of a true persistent service so that entities are kept in a <code>HashMap</code> in the user's session rather than
                in a database. Hence, you can invalidate your session in order to reset the entity collection.</p>
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="code">
                
            </ui:define>
            
            <ui:define name="documentation-panel"/>
        </ui:composition>
    </h:body>
</html>
